What is data science?
=====================

The term *data science* has come to stand for many different movements in
science, all loosely related to computing.  These movements are a response to
related developments in computing education, the success of the agile software
development process, the rise of open source, a major expansion in the amount
and range of data we can practically analyze, and an increasing emphasis
towards code and algorithms in data analysis.  A combination of related
factors has caused a huge increase in the actual and potential use of software
in industry and academia, and a matching increase in the demand for
programmers and computational data analysts.  Less clearly related is the rise
of the movement towards reproducible science, including open code and data.
It may not be a coincidence that the major early champion for this movement,
David Donoho, also works in a computational field (computational statistics).

All these movements seem to appear under or around the umbrella of "data
science".  Here we will try to summarize these movements as we understand
them, and argue that there are two primary themes: a nascent revolution in the
process of scientific inquiry, and an overwhelming pressure, largely from our
students, to teach data analysis and inference using code.

## References

Donoho, David L. "50 years of Data Science." Princeton NJ, Tukey Centennial
Workshop. 2015.

Tukey, John W. "The Future of Data Analysis." Ann. Math. Statist. 33 (1962),
no.  1, 1--67. doi:10.1214/aoms/1177704711.
http://projecteuclid.org/euclid.aoms/1177704711.

Wilson, Greg, et al. "Best practices for scientific computing." PLoS Biol 12.1
(2014): e1001745.
